# Text Analysis Toolkit

**Note: This is my first project! 😊**

This repository contains a Python toolkit for text analysis. It provides various functions and tools for processing and analyzing text data, including:

- Tokenization and sentence segmentation
- Text cleaning (lowercasing, stop word removal, punctuation removal)
- Lemmatization
- Named Entity Recognition (NER)
- Sentiment Analysis
- Frequency Analysis
- Topic Modeling
- Dispersion Plots
- Word Cloud Generation

## Getting Started

To use this toolkit, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository to your local machine:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/text-analysis-toolkit.git

2.Install the required Python packages by running:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3.Place your text files (e.g., "Syrian.txt" and "MyCountry.txt") in the root directory of the project.

4.Modify the main() function in text_analysis.py to process your specific text data and analysis tasks.

5.Run the script with the input file paths as arguments:
```bash
python text_analysis.py Syrian.txt MyCountry.txt
```
6.Explore the results, including charts, dispersion plots, and word clouds generated by the toolkit.

## Usage
Here's a brief overview of how to use the functions provided by the toolkit:

1.:closed_book: read_book(file_path): Read and load your text data from the specified file.

2. :chart_with_upwards_trend: perform_sentiment_analysis(): Analyze the sentiment of your text.

3. :family: find_most_common_names(): Find the most common person names in the text.

4. :bar_chart: create_name_frequency_chart(): Create bar charts of the most common names.

5. :chart_with_upwards_trend: create_dispersion_plot(): Generate dispersion plots for specific words.

6. :page_facing_up: perform_topic_modeling_on_real_words(): Perform topic modeling on your text data.

7. :cloud: create_word_cloud(): Create word clouds to visualize word frequency.

## Contributing
If you'd like to contribute to this project or have suggestions for improvement, please don't hesitate to reach out! I'm learning as I go and appreciate your input.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.



Copyright (c) [2023] [Cristina Matacuta]
